MS Analytics Class 2021: So I kind of made.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A couple of changes this meeting is being recorded little like to be consented to the recording okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: me minimize this let's see if I can get blackboard like English shape, if not we'll just have to listen to me tell you what it says.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we'll I don't think blackboards coming on if it does i'll pull it up later, but we'll go ahead and get started.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me swap.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Presentation views grab the clicker turn it on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Make sure it works.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For him to go forward and backward to go back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so howdy how's everybody I know if you're like me real out and he lives in Texas without power for a little while.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Water maybe definitely without Internet I was about Internet until about Friday it kind of came back with a little bit the one I lost power again went away and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then kind of came back Thursday little bit went away and came back, but it wasn't that great.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Even even to Monday I was trying to upload upload 100 Meg 400 Meg video for my high school class that I volunteer to teach introduction, for your science at here in town and took four and a half hours.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I was getting point oh seven meg's per second upload speed I usually get about 102 hundred megs so that being said, I know a lot of you had the same issue, so I hopefully you saw the announcement.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That I just pushed her homework back to make it do you mean I think 11:59pm on Sunday, so that should be there, so For those of you are still having issues or did not have Internet and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know it's kind of hard to watch videos and download stuff and and you know and work and stuff when you're dealing with all this so just to make it easier on everybody I pushed it back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As you're struggling, please let me know i'll do what I can help do you know that Saturday Saturday and Sunday i'll be i'll be on a sailboat and so, if you hit me up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You probably won't get me i'm actually taking a sailboat class, so you know, not only was he said i'll be learning how to sail it won't be using myself along doing that so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Do I hit me up you want to try to get me later and I forget homework tomorrow so so anyway so homework do Sunday night.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you look at the syllabus what we're which somebody might have got to look at the news updates over tonight what i'm going to do tonight is talk about Cooper daddy's and I called out as a cloud to some of the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cloud features that are in out some of the fun features are service, excuse me services that are an azure to deploy Python to deploy models to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some other some Python supplements just you know analytic model right so we'll cover that tonight what i'm not going to cover it live in person is good and as a devops so I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Take the class videos I did last year they're actually going to separate days there's no splice them together and and maybe add a few.
MS Analytics Class 2021: might add a little bit extra to it a couple of things I want to talk about the whole bill do in person, so my ads the start of the in that video that i'll get that done over the next week or so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: has nothing to do with your homework to do or anything like that, so you can watch it actually at your leisure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know just make sure if you don't watch it before the Semester is over the release download it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can watch it after the fact, because I know access to all this will go away blackboard after you graduate after a certain amount of weeks or how long it is I don't remember but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I will get that out there you won't miss any of the content those just won't be able to watch me and speak to you live, you have to watch the video.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then also we're gonna have homework 3000 gave you last week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Good news is or not you don't have it, and the other good news is it's not fair you to not give it to you, so that we can get a full hour comments everybody under for homework three so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That way, when you get the optimization you'll thank me later that my homework was so easy I promise you it's an optimization so you think this is our programming, you know don't want to scare you off, but just know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: optimizations a little different how things and stuff so I don't want to, I want to, I want to kind of give you a leg up with what I give you here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Plus i'm more concerned about you learning the concepts and not trying to kill you kill you with code so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that On another note if you're struggling if you're stuck don't don't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't like you know email me and say i've been struggling for a week trying to get the sort don't work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I want to I want you to email me like an hour after you struggle like you've been tried and say i've been trying I can't get it to work I don't want you to get frustrated I don't want you to wait too long, and so you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I give you the project which I won't be much any much more harder or anything that was already done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I give you that you know if you if you start when you start working on, if you get stuck with it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't don't wait to email me and email me and say hey i'm having an issue can't get it working I can't get that done working at text me and say you know me and make sure that email you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Give me a screenshot and you know what errors or issues you're having and I will get back to you pretty quickly, I think, a few of you all can attest to that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Also, have you guys been able to just text you back a response and and fix your issue right away or email you back a quick response is usually something simple, as I try to make it to be that way so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're all good so homework three you're all getting 100 graduations great job just not fair to give you all a bunch of homework, with everything going on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: midnight Sunday.
MS Analytics Class 2021: turn in your homework, too, and like I said we're ready to race azure cloud tonight and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Next week, really do pi spark and add your data bricks and Apache spark so we'll talk about like high performance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data Processing and model building at massive scale, so will be lot of fun and that that will be my last next Tuesday will be my last in person class with you, and then you have a couple weeks turn your homework in so you know we'll have office hour.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know I will have the office hours on Monday afterwards, and I think Dr harmon will start the next Thursday and then he'll he'll be off the office hours, then on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But That being said, you know you'll have another week or so after.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And in many people here can attest, because i've met with somebody in person already resume you know office hours are great come to them, I think we hopefully many you can say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think we learned a lot of them, but at the same time, so we can't come watch the videos and then, if you do need my help i'll try to accommodate the best I can get it set up meetings up with you and get you fix, so I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: means I want you to learn the material much help find your last semester you're about to graduate and this is cool cool stuff so so all right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooper daddy's Okay, I think I think the battery must be going well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah sometimes sometimes it will try again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay battery.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Know see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Forget.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just had to turn it off and on and click so here's the outline talk about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: container registries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because when you deploy the docker containers that you ready clusters, you have to be sitting in a container registry, so your docker image has to be sending out like a registry, so that you can then deploy that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: image that docker image out to these Cooper any clusters so i'll talk about docker hub just Just to give you an idea of how hey if you want it to be did a really cool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker image, you want to share it to the world, so how you can do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then i'll show you how to deploy to azure container registry give you a little overview Cooper nettie.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we'll go through some different azure function as your services and different things show you what the azure portal looks like the front end to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: get to azure and start playing with the cloud playing with the cloud services talk about APP services functions ml as your machine learning cognitive services data breaks i'm just gonna have a slide that says, this is what data exists next week we'll do a whole thing.
Karen Fireman: At sorry Jamie Jamie can I stop you are carrying.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Market a patchy spark and then, as your setups analytics, this is a new product that just came out general availability in December and so i'll give you a DEMO.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Of APP services ml.
MS Analytics Class 2021: setups analytics and then the Cooper daddy's as well as the registry so that's the agenda get to the Cuban 80s through them up, take a break and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then go on to the other stuff do some demos, and then go home tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright docker hub already said what this is right, the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: CD this is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: dr.com This is where we can push with the doctor push man images to the hub there's thousands of images already out there, so like the Python three six dash slim.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, if you look you remember, if you remember in your docker file, you have that from statement and it says from Python three six dash slim.
Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's pulling an image that's stored on docker so i'll show you how to push that one images out there, how you can then you know run straight images straight from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pull them down and run them straight on your machine just it's just good to know you might not ever have to do it, but it's just kind of a nice thing to know I started playing with docker and all that how that works.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then the azure container registry so docker hub that dr.com is the website, that is where you can deploy the docker images to in the public they'll sit in private place but, most people when you're working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With these images and you're using your company you're deploying to your own container registry and it's an open source and i've mentioned this before, but it's gonna mention again if we're gonna play with it, you know DEMO it tonight and uses.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These container registry, so you can have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your own and that's usually what you use when you're working with them for yourself or for your company so but not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You go to the cloud as her has a container registry Google Amazon, they all have their own services for you to deploy these images docker images to to register and store the docker image.
Karen Fireman: Jamie can you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: really good as your container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: registry, the place at Google Amazon web services they all have their their own versions of container registry based on that open container initiative, I believe, is what the I stands for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, and the nice thing is when you push these up in you know it's a nice place for that I can then deploy it out to different Cooper daddy's and other things so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they have services that allow you to run container registry like local so not these are cloud based as a container registry file base up an azure but they have certain different software.
MS Analytics Class 2021: vendors that make different container registry, that you can run to deploy images like you know locally on to your servers in house for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For those of you that don't have access that you only can work in on like what we call on premises, so the servers that are in your data centers at your office when they have I forget some of the vendor names redshift is a product by vm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is through red hat then allows you to excuse me, open shift is a product that allows you to deploy Cooper daddy's clusters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your piece of mail you're having an issue.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Part of it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I came in the name of it but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a that's there, so no idea these container registry is a place where I build a docker image and I can store it to us for for deploying out into production.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, so what is Cooper daddy's so do some slides do demos, take a break, and so you know I think I talked about the slide really quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Last time we left just because I think a few of your just kind of had talked so much about docker and mentioned to raise a few times, but just real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: K s as the shorthand way that nerds like to shorthand spell component right because there's eight letters between the K in the US, so if you see K s somewhere.
MS Analytics Class 2021: out when you're reading documentation or lectures Cooper nettie started with Google as a project on board it's now part of the cloud native computing foundation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's open source software and it's may issues for managing and deploying containers at scale so when you build your docker image on your laptop right and you run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you've deployed in inside of the docker and there's just one instance of that image running a container your machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not very scalable like this on your machine, but if you need to go and make that so that millions of people can connect to it, we got to put it on two servers and then we probably have to scale it and cluster out across multiple machines.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooper daddy's is the service that orchestrates all that for us it's the service that says Oh, I have your docker image and or a docker images right it's a self contained application that has.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The Code, the os the you know the software everything bundled in this one little tight small image is that docker image and takes a docker image and then deploys out, it has multiple containers across these two arrays clusters right, yes, Sir, we have an issue here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh i'm sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay.
Brian Frankel: test test test can you hear us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, that's that I must keep talking and once you get that fixed if you're been talking to ask.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your question is, will.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will do that so so human existence.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Software that orchestrates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The deploying and managing these docker containers at scale right, and so you have to have software do that who raises the de facto standard to do that and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They own, and then we kind of talked about right, so these containers are portable their scale boulder eXtensible and its cloud native technology right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know this Cooper daddy's was developed at to be cloud native right because that as an industry that's what we're trying to us what is driving to is the cloud for speed and ease and just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know kind of makes your life easier, I think about if you're a startup you know you think like I think it was what's the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not saying also but what's the day yeah that's a female and she's like youngest female near the youngest female.
MS Analytics Class 2021: bumble right the be one mumble I was my single biggest bumble he just like to write.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and believing you know I don't know what technologies but I had to guess I probably started in the cloud right because they could.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, get going and get moving very, very quickly, you know, if you remember during the capital is right, you had.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Twitter, you had Facebook and all that and get this thing called parlor and also part we're going away right, it was because it ran on Amazon web services and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They killed it right on the cloud, but they built it really fast on the cloud and so that's that's the technologies allow for really fast.
MS Analytics Class 2021: deployment and setup because you don't have to go buy hardware you go buy a software developer that's already there, and you just go to a website and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: spin up the resource you want, and then use it so so nice and I can raise it's built to be cloud native right people you know, Google started they built it Google is a cloud based company right how they started so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's Cooper daddy's in the heart of it is, I can take my docker images run run as containers but run multiple versions of these These containers at scale we're still trying to get people talking.
MS Analytics Class 2021: on the street say hi.
Brian Frankel: Kevin are you on hey hey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hello all right, I want to do jumping Jacks percent.
Shadi Kilani: and hold on.
I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have a question sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're good I said Cooper daddy's.
Wilson Pineda: Enough so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll move on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we could always hear you.
Zuberi, Bilal: It was good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah you always hear me that's what she said, but I was worried what she was saying, some way, I think we're trying to talk, and so I didn't want to like have moved on to a question you had, and then, and then you asked context so just an overview, this is just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A graphic apple down, you know, and the whole idea here is, you have this master node on the left here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the point to the screen again have the people everybody that's been would not know what i'm pointing at the others master node and it's kind of controlling.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All the stuff to know how to go out to these pods, and all this different thing so when a request comes in for your application that's running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this cluster your application running in these cluster docker containers and Cooper daddy's you know it has to know how to go about all that right, because you might have 1000.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker containers running for your application and they're just they're the exact same thing right that's the thing that's going to understand these containers that are running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For like, for example, one quality docker image we built right over to deploy this in a second to Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And azure it's that same piece of software running 1000 times and what this Cooper daddy's architectures doing is allowing whenever I make a request to that one quality service to get my prediction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It knows how to route you to one of those containers to get that prediction I, and so it knows became in your coming to this IP address that goes to this particular application.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On this port or whatever right and it goes in and knows hey i've got these thousand containers running the exact same thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And those which one it routed YouTube and how to get that information and we route back to you, to your browser right or to your application does that make sense, does it do it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well you're just depends right, I mean, I want to get too much into that because we, as you who really care as long as it works right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know the technology is called like round Robin where it's like Okay, I went to one now i'm going to now go to three now i'm going to four to five.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you have other things where they're managing how much workload and things are going on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So he knows how to pick you know certain things getting what you need to do it knows has to go sometimes brought you back to the same one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because it might have some kind of caching and things that it's doing, and so in bandages all that for you and orchestrates all that that's this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Through the Cooper hands doing this, the orchestration and management and deploying of these docker images as containers across multiple nodes and scale I am multiple things so that makes sense yeah you're right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And don't do blitz, and all this don't worry about those terminology here, so a cluster of the clusters, the entire thing right it's the it's the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's got the control plane and got some nodes it's a set of machines is writing all this right so whenever I spin up a Cooper daddy's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: instance in azure behind the scenes microsoft's got one X number of machines that my daddy's cluster is running on does that make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it could be one machine so like my DEMO and here i'm just gonna do one node because it's free and it's cheap because it's free.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's just to show you how it works and it's just settings that I have in the game on file that determine all that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you know you can be some application like you know, Google and, if you remember, I think it was 2 billion, like, I think, was 2016 Google deployed scaled up like 2 billion containers a week, I think, and you ready.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, but that cluster is just the word that means the whole thing right my whole Cooper nettie existence and it could have multiple applications running in that so let's say you know Cooper daddy's for employees as red wine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: red wine he's back here behind the podium well I keep pointing over that way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, that's that's what the monitor is, but you know reply that red wine APP here in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To Cooper daddy's cluster, but I can have multiple Apps in general, you do you're not you're not setting up a race last forever yeah you might have a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know you're having to raise cluster, like many of you might have one Cooper daddy's cluster at your company running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All your Apps and you might have one doesn't want to test what in prod so if you're familiar with kind of like applicant applicant application life.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cycle management, a LM Where are you know hey you deploy Dev and test it all out and you make it work by the test and it works good and testing deploy to production.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's where it lives and people use it for production, you might have like a Dev test production Cooper daddy's clusters, but you know you might not necessarily have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A q&a cluster from a red wine at the Cooper daddy's cluster for my you know you know, whatever other APP right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My white one quality average Cooper daddy's cluster for my wine dictionary website, you know, do they have like a few nights buster is to have all these Apps you can employ.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will collapse, you can deploy to and, if you remember when we when we did our docker image and we played our flask APP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you remember in the red wine, when I had those two Apps sources one was slashing it print Hello world and one was slash like wine quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's the one that actually ran a prediction, you know, in your file, you have multiples of those right, so the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: source and slash are going to each one of us to be their own application, so the speaker their own service in there, and so, when you deploy these you might have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An application with multiple services in there that you're hitting or you might have you know, an application so you might have one docker image of this application and other docker image for this application.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can run these in Cooper daddy's and as each individual applications that kind of makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, so, but you gotta set up a well the point i'm trying to make is you're not going to have a Cooper daddy's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you know Cooper daddy's cluster or Cooper daddy's implementation per application so it's not like it's not like wine quality goes to this one through readies cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: careers cluster is probably going to be one cluster that whole your whole company uses an employee multiple Apps in there, and this whole you know master node knows and you come in and you're out and knows how to route you to those to those.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Different Apps that you might have running and the different containers and your Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the control plane, this is just what controls everything, so this is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The This is all controlled by the vendor that you're using for this like it's not something you have to worry about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: per se it's all managed for you, so when you go and you deploy docker image into your Cooper daddy's cluster this control plane is what knows how.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To set that up and install that across the different nodes in different places in the cluster and it manages all that for you so it's it's handled by the vendor you don't have to worry about them one second.
here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah sorry I apologize I just noticed the clock in the back is wrong.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I said look like it's 1120 i'm like it's not 20 after i'm done speaking three minutes so it's 740 so I apologize I just needed a reference to know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What time it is sorry videos on I can see in Cameron, the clock in the back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the control point it's just it's it's what you're paying for right and you're you're paying for the hardware You paint on that, but the magic is this control plane is what knows how to control everything for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, in the past i've done things like clustering right and I had to set up everything like I had to go so i'll give you example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a database a database administrator for many, many, many years and companies like Oracle and sequel server has clustering.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For your cluster multiple databases together, and it would take us months to set them up i'm not kidding because you'd have to get.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The server setup this server setup get the networking between the server setup get the software installed between.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For all this stuff make sure they're all communicating and it could take months like to get that working right, whereas with the cloud I click a button to have this all set up for me and the control plane is what's controlling all that for me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: knows, these are the physical servers so on your nose, you know you have your containers where they're running these pots, but these are the physical nodes, and so this is how this has to do with can I cut you're scaling right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So how many nodes you have and how big these nodes are meaning, how much memory, how much storage, how much.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cpus because of how much you can scale out your environment right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the cloud, you can you turn you tell it, how many nodes you me, and all that you're not really dealing with the Ram and the different things for you a cloud vendors hold that did that for you, but you do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you deploy these Cooper daddy's clusters and you set them up to deploy your Apps into you set up how many nodes you need and course the more nodes, you have the bigger your cluster is and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: By you know, consequently, the more your costs right So when I DEMO this, we have one node which is, which is free kind of thing to test.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But when you get into production you're you're you're going to want it to size up what you're doing and how this all works to figure out how many of these nodes you need, but these nodes the physical servers This is where the code gets deployed to right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, this control plane is what knows how to manage where everything goes across these notes make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then pause So these are just your collections of containers, this is where the code goes, and these are just these represent the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: logical post So when I say a logical host this is the like when I go to my APP I have this logical.
MS Analytics Class 2021: bundling of all my containers together for that particular APP to know how to get to that APP so in this case of wine quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's what these pods are doing these pods are where I am I containers in and puts my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My code together so that the containers that are for that one application let's say wine quality is what we've been doing right these partial it knows how to put them together.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you have a part of your wine quality data wine quality APP your docker container and it knows and the components cluster knows how, when you go to get to that one quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Application that container and knows how to go where the pot is and what node and we're running around that making sense and all these pods.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have the same IP address, and I can talk to each other, they talk about local host number, the local host and the host.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's they all run is that, but the the engine and don't worry about this nerd talk i'm saying now as much, but the Cooper daddy's is what knows how.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To talk to all these containers right it just knows how to orchestrate that for you, and they have shared volumes of storage that they share these pots.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And as you start and stop your clusters these these data gets removed off of the sheer volumes and we put back when they.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When they start the containers, but the main concept here again it's just this part is this collection of your containers this this logical.
MS Analytics Class 2021: grouping is not a physical thing it's just a logical grouping on the physical part of them, and you can see that and the soul image, right here, right, you can see, I have this pot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and have another part and that's running on know day and and unless know be I have another part right, and these are running my containers right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and why pod because if you look at the docker containers a little while but what's a group of Wales pods right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: deployment, so how we deploy we use a gamble file and then we use this utility called CCL we're gonna live DEMO that in a second so for the classroom two weeks ago, and you also are first class or you get.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A yellow ain't a markup language is what the animal stands for everybody says, yet another markup language but really that acronym.
MS Analytics Class 2021: stands for DEMO a markup language but that's just that's simple kind of key value pair easy to read, this is just a sample if you go to download the zip file for week six you know there's a there's a folder on there that has the scripts to run to deploy to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To azure so that's out there and there's there's a gamble file out there's a red wine is red wine mo vinyl is a file in that folder and that has all the stuff meeting in there to deploy our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our red wine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: APP into Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, then, we have services and the services, this is a kind of important diagram right, so the services, is this the set deposit work together right, so a pod.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have a positive has your containers in there, but multiple paths and be running the same.
MS Analytics Class 2021: APP right the same container right, so the services is what groups come together and so in this diagram think of service sex and our wine or red wine data this our service sex is our reading or one quality service right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, all of these pods have that have these containers running with that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That, and so it knows how to get to that so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that makes sense.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then don't worry about so much violence that's just that and then labels, you can create you can create these key value things to label your your your your data and Cooper daddy's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: replica sets these are just grouping mechanisms that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That led to you know, maintain the number of instances declare forgiving pod so it really is replica sets or what can I control you scale up your containers and whatnot inside of your Cooper daddy's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then name spaces.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can actually have these name spaces inside of your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooper nettie so that you can separate things out like you could have won the race cluster we separate out Dev tests and prod in that one cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Instead of having separate clusters for Dev test on prod you could have one doesn't have a name name spaces.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that you can separate it out, so you might have a few guys cluster and you might have a namespace for one project, the namespace for another.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's what that's what these names faces over okay too much coffee what I really want you to learn.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Out of Cooper daddy's is I can create these Cooper daddy's cluster to deploy my my flask Apps that are putting these docker images as containers that I can scale out right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: nerves, like me, manage will manage this for you, and if you want to get nerdy and be a data engineer that builds Cooper daddy's clusters and manage that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have the slides there so that you know the terminology, but for what you're going to do is an analytics person that data science person.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're going to build a docker image that has a flask APP in it and then you're gonna you're going to go, and this is, this is what you're gonna learn in the video i'm going to record.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your then put it into some repository code repository whether it's as a devops or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, whatever you use as a Repo for your code and then somehow these things, called ci CD pipelines and that this is all the video and we'll talk about in the video and i'll DEMO it in the video upload the next week or so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But what you do is you write your code, so you have that code that we created for wine flask.
MS Analytics Class 2021: APP you know, to do our prediction right, and so you build this code you're an employee or positive organisms have these pipelines that can then automatically deploy this in your cluster for you right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, as a data scientist so like the data scientists, where I work all right word.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When they write their code they're not they don't really know much about what's happening with Cooper daddy's clusters other they know that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They wrote their code they put it into the repository and it has these things, called pipelines that can automatically detect that path is NICO that either pushing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To the environment and these pipelines is code, I say pipeline is just code, it says oh I got this code on the push it up and to my to raise cluster or wherever it's going to whatever APP is going to go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's as a data scientist analytics type person as you're writing code to do models and stuff that's kind of what I want you to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: understand how that count process and we're not so much exactly what's happening Cooper daddy's it's kind of good to know overview to know what's going on, which is like it, which I, which is why I give you this slide that but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The main point again is to raise as a way to cluster a bunch of containers together remember dictators that APP so it can scale across multiple nodes so i'm going to stop and DEMO the Cuban 80s and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, before I DEMO it any questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Clear as mud.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hopefully, the clear part is is february's has multiple containers running across it for your APP right, and so you can scale it out that's that's, the main thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So okay so let's oh looks like blackboards up for credit so while it's up let's see if I can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Open up the syllabus So you can see it there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's just going me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, some.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Enormous so in your week six folder.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have a deploy red wine APP to azure Cooper nettie services older.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And inside there, I have three files.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and see how they're labeled step one through step.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Two and then you also have this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to zoom in a second dory yeah you have this little red wine mo file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is just telling me this is just giving the instructions to how i'm going to deploy my my container in this case, my admin my docker image red wine to to to Cooper days and we'll come back to the store buy so much right now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, to get started, what I have to do is go to my command prompt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we're going to use the azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: command line interface excusing was doing, which is not installed So how do I install that so if we go back.
To.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can go right to this link to install all right, so let me go back here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Think I don't live on the, so this is just just I wanted to show you the slides there that were like hey where do I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Get the Green Line interface, so the thing to note is, we can also do this the portal, but i'm going to do command line interface because that's just a little.
MS Analytics Class 2021: easier to DEMO and that's generally how how I would do it as far as to the command line so let's get the command line interface install I think I already downloaded.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah so right here every week that way and downloaded it so i'll get going, while it's running out i'll open up that link in the browser just so you can see what I graph.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So while that's running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll just open it up right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just took the defaults there's nothing spectacular so see right here, when you get to hear you have windows MAC or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Linux you can actually run into the docker container So if you if you need to actually run as a mainline docker you got to start a docker image and run on there, but I just want to install for windows and just run this current release right there I got it so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: can do real quick.
Karen Fireman: it's Karen if we did this before two weeks ago, when you were talking to us where where will we find it if we already if we already did some kind of down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: probably going to be in your i'm not sure if you already download interface, it should be in your downloads.
Karen Fireman: Oh, is it is that the only place that will be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Usually like it's coming from the web, so it should be a downloads folder If not you can just download it again and then just hit run.
Karen Fireman: It will be called azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We call azure that coi dot 219 one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those, like this, this is just an MSI right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if you already downloaded and installed it you don't have to reinstall it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is just one, this is a one time deal right you install the command line interface, and you have it now you want to keep it up to date right so as new releases come out, you know you can download the latest version and update it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, now that I have that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I restarted my command prompt so that it has in the past.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I might type az now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know I did the command line interface working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And az is just as easy as an az and then that space and some command right, so this just lets me know it's working so what i'm going to do is i'm going to put my code over here to my left screen right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'm going to put my excuse me want to put my command prompt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: over here to my right screen and then i'll zoom in and out as are going in so i've put notes in these files, so you know areas going on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so easy login that's self explanatory, we have to log into our azure portal right to our as your subscription it's called so that we can do this and i'm gonna go back to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To azure portal in a second and once after we actually go as we go through right so i'm going to like running one line command and i'm going to show you an excuse me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the portal that's something I kind of do this into phase two to two objectives, so to speak, of what i'm trying to teach right now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How to deploy the Cooper nettie and a little DEMO of what the azure portal looks like so i'm going to run a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: command line, and as I run them i'm gonna go and show you in the azure portal what that looks like and, as I do that show you a couple things about the azure portal, so the portal that azure COM is the Web front interface, where you manage your as your resources and your azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Security and all that, like that's that's the front end to azure to do stuff so get started we're gonna i'm just gonna copies line by line.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the az login this is going to run it's going to open up a browser so tell me to login i've already logged in once before, so I just clicked what popped up and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You notice right here now, it says hey you've logged in you can close this window and go away, so I close it go away and give me one second i'm just gonna.
Go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now, if you look over here in our command problem, you can see where it logged me and I and list all my subscriptions I actually have to subscriptions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In my in my what's called a tenant so the highest level of your as your as your tenant so every company usually has one minute, but you might have multiple subscriptions or eight there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Am I my case I, for some reason own two copies of visual studio ultimate and so you get I get 150 credits, a month from azure with my visual studio ultimate and for whatever reason.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I own I have two copies of it through work, I think, once my work, it was my mvp one from Microsoft so that's why to which gives me $300 of credit, a month to play with that so it's cool right which is great because that's what I used to teach you guys, so I get my subscription.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I go to the portal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I just didn't home, I wanted to go back there.
I know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going forward as your login you can see, like my resources and stuff right so we're gonna start creating resources and I show up here just to give you idea of all the services as your has to offer.
Karen Fireman: You can see that you get to that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: portal that azure.com.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you if you forget if you download the slides.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's the Web interface for managing your resources right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is the idea i'm gonna click off.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And look at all the stuff that is available in the cloud.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I mean we're not gonna go through all this we're going to go in the second half of class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not so i'm going to hurry up a little bit and deploy so so first thing we're doing from a resource group so inside of your subscription.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a logical grouping of resources and azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That gets what's called resource group so basically in my portal I log into manager, I have my subscription.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's on my scripts and I create different resource groups for different things and there they can be based on business units, they can be based on projects, it could be based on on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Whatever right and it just depends on your apartment in this case i'm just creating one for these this as a group or any services because I need one and plus I wanted to be able to strip all this out for you guys, to be able to to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: do that, so I just ran this as your group, create name bond resource if I go back to the portal and I go back to home.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if I refresh right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if I click up here and the resource groups.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have a bunch of them out there, but one of these is going to be the one I just created.
should be there, I.
don't know why it's not like a refresher.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sometimes it takes a minute usually not like that this resource group stuff is pretty instantaneous so they created right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm not sure why it's not showing up what come back for a few other things so that's the response rate now I create a container registry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this is where i'm atmosphere right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I have some things here, like you, basic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What this means is what's the service level of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like of the service, I want to use i'm using this case basically the cheap it's like this is actually free, so it doesn't have different things like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: redundant storage and all that and things like that right, so this is good, so in here i'm praying.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this regressive resource groups or logical groupings right or I grew my stuff up right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So inside this new resource room I just created just a logical thing is that there's no services, there is just a logical place for me to stick services and agile i'm afraid my first service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: called bod aka SCR as and container registry, and this is where i'm ability deploy my red wine image to right and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So down here, this is going to run we let it run, and so this creative my container service right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, after straightaway i'm going to be easy, as a container registry login and log into that service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I created so easy login just logged me into my azure surface to my subscription I mean to my tenet this is going to log me in to my container registry see right here are logged in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to get a list of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now i'm gonna get my container registry server name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you look right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is my server name for my container registry This is important because this is the server name that's an azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That when I go to deploy my docker image up to my container registry in a cloud I need to know this name right so i'm just logged into my container registry service ran this man to get this name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now i'm a just do the docker image list.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Make sure my docker images there, so what we're doing right now is the creative resource group that's just a logical place to create resources and created our first resource.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That is the container registry where we're going to push our docker image to to have it in the cloud got to get that docker image to the cloud.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that we can then deploy that docker image into our Cooper daddy's cluster we're gonna set up in a minute as a container does that make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's just make sure the docker image is deployed onto this machine and sure enough we're doing red wine a shirt off, you can see, red wine is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: deployed down there, along with misty.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now, I have to do this, I have to tag.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My image tag this local image that's on my machine, so I can push it to the container registry remember what I did that container registry list to get my login server notice this little piece right here on this tag once I tag this image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With this tag name on there, somewhere, this is the container and the container registry her server slash the name of my image with a tag of the version base and that be one I typed what I wanted it to be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you only get the Python ones like we did there like Python three six dash SLIM that's that tag like this case i'm just a csv one of my thing So when I go and run this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is a copy both lines, so my tagline local my local image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh sorry.
Every copy.
Stephanie Pollock: Professor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes.
Stephanie Pollock: I haven't been able to get past that create resource group.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah so so don't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's the thing most of you probably don't have logins yet portal so you're not will fall on plus if you try to it's gonna it's gonna just take this take us too long.
Stephanie Pollock: just watch.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, what you can do is you can use your EDU account and go to portal that after.com sign up for free do not give them your credit card.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then take the scripts and everywhere where it says bought 689 replace it with like your name and then at home afterwards run through all this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they said there's no tests, right now, this you do this at your leisure and I will make this statement now i'll make the statement last five minutes of the last class next week is i'm the Professor always so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't end even though they're not paying me to be your Professor after you know that's actually I guess after office hours and I grade your stuff and turn it right, but i'll always be available so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know if you two years from now, my cell phones been the same for 20 something years my email, I think you have I personally melt not i'll give it to you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As long as i'm reaching Am I still have that email, you can contact me that afterwards, later on, so I know there's a lot of you are, and all that So if you can't get to the right away, and you start playing with the sale in the summer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know and you're like Oh, I wish, I would ask them, then please ask me don't don't hesitate, I mean I you know my as Microsoft mvp for a reason it's because I like teaching people and so uh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So yeah you won't know if I do this because you probably don't have the portal login setup right so.
Stephanie Pollock: All right, thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah sorry I said i'm happy anybody that says hey I want you to walk my hand through this afterwards one day.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To send me an email we'll set up a zoom for 30 minutes and we'll walk through it, I promise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it'll just be easier i've done other demos, if I try to have 3960 people try to go along with the DEMO will be here will be here a while, because inevitably something just doesn't work right, so I tagged my image now you notice right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That I have my image tag right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right now i'm going to push it to the container registry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I just use the docker push to me, and this is, this is the doctor, for me, and I, this is not an adjective mean this is Dr syntax and notice look familiar.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's literally pushing my docker image to the inner webs you see it going up in when he's washing it's going up through the roof way to the internal Apps.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it makes sense, what we're doing so, remember, we use docker file, we did the bill man to build our image now we're using this push demand to push it to the inner webs all that's running let's just see if our resource group and our our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: container showed up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: retainer industry.
Brian Frankel: Professor this is Brian if I made for a second so currently with the sure is that going to be necessary for the project that we have it's coming up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No, no, I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Trust me I don't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't want you to have to rely on as reframing the project, just because it's it one one wrong step the point of view, rice, cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, you could you know you actually put your credit card, and you can have you know $100,000 bill literally I gotta tell you I told you this couple weeks ago there was a student, I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It was me you age or somewhere yeah, I think, as you age, please go to this deep learning and thing on Saturdays and one of the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Students they're signed up for a data versus data break sign up for data bricks made it to the Community edition.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they did the recognition and they put their credit card in and I played her Watson terabytes and terabytes of data and stuff they got like $1,000 bill.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At the end of the month, and they weren't happy, so I don't do anything that might cause you to have financial problems, but I give you all this stuff so that you can go and do this on your own i'm not sure why none of this is showing them and it is showing up now, so if I go right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see, this is our container registry see right here, this is a bod 69 as security services as your container registry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you look at the overview remember when I did the login server remember that that command I did I got that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think repositories So if you look.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Remember, I said we pushed our red wine repository up to it there, it is in the portal right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: click, we can see there's a versions, so we can have multiple versions of it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I go right here my breasts and we created that resource route first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I click the resource group and see right now, I just have my container registry all the objects and a bill going forward the Cooper daddy's cluster all that all be the same resource group so we'll go back to this resource group here to look at things right, the right with me so far.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we've all gotten the azure we pray the resource group to hold all our resources that we're going to build we built our first resource group, which is the container registry, which allows us to publish our docker image into the container registry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I just showed you this in the portal, but I can you can also use this as your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: container registry repository listen man.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To list.
The.
Karen Fireman: TV or the coi commands and this script.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here i'm sorry I can't hear you.
Karen Fireman: Are all these commands coi commands that are running is that the command prompt now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that everything is an azure car like this is just write a command prompt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You see, to open up right after you install the as a command line interface good to have for everything we've done so far, you make sure you have docker installed, which you should you have to do a docker image, so the ones that start with az.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These are as your command line interface all the commands for the direct mail interface for AC.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, as I started by line interface.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah really starts with a Z comes from that download of that as your command line interface everything starts with Dr is the docker command line interface that got installed the install docker three four weeks ago.
Karen Fireman: right but are you saying that if we go into our command line interface in between AC and the line it will it will recognize it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, it should, if you got if you have African a command line interface install the software installed, you should go over command line command prompt type az and you should get back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You should get back you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just like Beijing and I don't get the list of all the option, you know, although you'll get the help basically of what you can do so.
Karen Fireman: Where is this, where is this script that you gave us, I know you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: make sense if you go look in week six yeah you look at week six in the folder yeah deploy red wine at to add.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A service.
Karen Fireman: And then it's the first one, the yam.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or this step as well, right now, we're on step one we'll get we'll get into where they will get to the animal file here in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right now we're doing step, one which is to push our docker image to the azure Cooper nettie azure container registry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because our Cooper daddy's cluster is going to run an agile right and it's going to run our red wine docker image JESSICA asked as a container as a cluster of containers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Full to do that, we have to get our image that we built local on our machine in the azure, how do we do that and create an azure container repository that we can then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: push our docker image to the cloud, so that we can do step two, which is to say hey take this red white image that's it into my container registry and deploy it to my Cooper daddy's cluster so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I look at the animal file just go there with with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Does this part look familiar right here this thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We just saw that right when we tagged our local image we tagged with that name to say hey we're going to create a new local image that's going to this to raise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: an excuse me to this as your container registry as that man so in our gamble file, this has all the information that we're going to do this in a second use the CMO file to deploy our our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: red line image into our Cooper daddy's cluster so it can run a container and so that's what step one is is to get the image into the azure container registry into the azure container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Service right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now we're going to step two and step two is to create the cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That is not needed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I already if you look at this register right here, you don't need to do this step, right here i'll we upload the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Step two so you don't have that confused I uploaded the zip right for Class i'm gonna if I fix this in the week three zip because we were going to do this, and like week three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or four things we for new this week, for I fixed that and the week, for one, but I copied it from when I created the week six I must have copied that the thing, but that that one command here we don't need this register so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to delete that out of there So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to create our cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And when we create a cluster, we have to attach our container registry right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can think of our container registry is our it's the source of what's feeding our cluster right we're going to feed her as her Cooper daddy's cluster with you know docker images.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this case, so we got to attach that as your container registry to that so that's what this command lines doing is creating the cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As crazy as a group, or a services cluster and it's attaching that cluster to the service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To the container registry service so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This takes a while to run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're gonna wait a second so any questions.
yeah.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so say we got to the coi and then what I mean i'm so far i'm so many steps behind I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: said I really try to have a follow on just because it's gonna.
Karen Fireman: I don't think was confusing where you are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's all it's confused so where i'm at right here so let's go back to the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's just look at the text file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, we have two files right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, the first one, which is.
Karen Fireman: silly yes step one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Everyone, which is the logging to it.
Karen Fireman: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One step two is to create a resource group, this is our logical group where our services go right and then we're going to create the container registry, this is where we're going to this is the service, this is an actual service that runs on azure or I can publish docker images to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because I have to have my docker image in a container registry and azure so that I can then push that docker image over to my azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooper nettie service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run it as containers, you know as cluster of containers in my address Cooper nettie services right so once I create my container registry, which is where all right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I create my payroll history, then I have to log into it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you have to log in to that container registry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then we get a list of we run a command that gives me the login server name, which is what then is used to tag my local image, so my local docker image of red why.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I eat a tag I need to tag that local image, I need to create a new tab version that local image with my container registry in it, so that I can then push it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To the service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's what the doctor push demand is so so the thing to notice all the stuff that starts with a Z these are, this is the agile command line interface.
MS Analytics Class 2021: everything starts with docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the doctor service, this is the docker command line right so dockers, an open source thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooper daddy's is open source technology so we're doing a combination of two things in this first trip we're using as your command line and quit or resources.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And azure in this case it's are just basically our as our container registry that can store image and then we're using the docker commands to tag or logo image we already built for red wine, so that we can then push it to our container registry that open azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then the last step is just listing the fact that it's there so that's step one that's so step one script is take my docker image for red wine, create a tag version that's registered that container registry I have and push it to the cloud that's all step one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Step two, which is wrong now is we're going to create the azure Cooper daddy's cluster we're going to connect to that cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then we're going to configure what's called the Cooper nettie coi and what this does is Cooper daddy's has its own command lines, so in this case it's coupe cpl.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we run this command to get that Cooper daddy's command line interface so and then we have three command line interfaces and all the command line interfaces it's just an.
MS Analytics Class 2021: executable that you're executing the command prompt right, so we have free ones are using the easy one, which is the azure command line interface with docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is the docker command line interface that got installed when you install docker foods ago and then last thing we're going to do is the scoop cpl.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is going to get installed by this as you're committed this as your command line interface that they've given you a shortcut cut.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the azure command line interface, to be able to download install coupe cto and so we're gonna run that that's installed that third command line interface for us with a spoon Cooper daddy's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: command line interface, which is cutesy GL which then allows us to go in and say hey take our gamble file, which has our information of what you know what.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What docker image we're going to deploy in the specs of things are employed a docker image into our cluster we use the Q bcl to to apply that mo file to our Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then that's going to deploy that ctr applies and deploy our red wine docker image end of the few readings cluster as an application and then we're use a command to attach.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And look at that cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then we're gonna do the same thing you did what you when you deploy the docker image to your local container and you're in it and then Oh, you did to deploy dot C and D.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On your local machine and recreated the image and then it ran the container right the docker run their own container and the container and your machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you went to the flask you went to the Hello world first to see make sure that the things running properly in the browser and then you went your bed one quality flask APP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And went to local host or 127 001 report wine quality and you send in some prediction variables to get it back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're gonna do the same thing at the end of the day, we're taking that same docker image we use that we built our local machine and deploy it as a container our local machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're taking that same docker image pushing it to a registry service container registry service in the cloud building a Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to deploy that image as containers inside that cluster and then now once it's rare that cluster we can hit it and test it just like we do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Anything else, so instead of running locally, on your machine tested were to go to the public IP address and tested now we'll talk about public IP and private ips in a second so that makes sense Karen.
Karen Fireman: said, thank you okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: awesome so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This came back, so now we have our Cooper daddy's cluster right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Below.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if we go back into the portal I just flipped over the portal for hit refresh, we can see now hey we got our keyword a service like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The little icon here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Go back to the command line go back to here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we are going to so now we're here we're a go and create or create wellness run this command this to install our Cooper daddy's interface.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Unless I keep cto.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Unless this command right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That wants to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to configure, so this is like we did the AC login to log in with our as our command line, this is like this is the command line to log into our Cooper daddy's cluster right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now we're logged into our Cooper daddy's cluster we're going to get our word list our nose.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's right right here at this part right here tonight, get nodes and, if you look right here, we can see, we got one node there's the name of it it's ready.
here's the version.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And now we're gonna deploy an application.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to run that command let it run in the background for a second and i'm open them about the ml file explain a little bit about what's going on right, so I want that run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Know certainly let that run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There we go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There we're going animal doesn't exist, why because i'm not in the right path so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I have to get in the right path, which is excuse me start that way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have to get to where my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: week since.
Karen Fireman: You know, with the right path is.
yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I know.
Karen Fireman: yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's wherever you're.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At the families where do you say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right right yeah sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I lost, you said you asked me if it were the right map was like no not really I was like so like you know you just looking to explore right there's your path.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know just copy that so it's wherever that red wine files, because I didn't specify a path your purpose, because depending where you installed it, it will carry on zipped it so now i'm in that light paths, so now, if I Dr I can see my red wine ammo and so, if I just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: go up to my file now my service is created.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I see right here deployment red wine created service red wine, right now, my service is running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, the moment of truth let's go get our red wine service and see if it's running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so if we look, right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, for those of you at home.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I deployed this as a public IP So if you go to 52 dot 190 dot 24 dot one or a flat actually I think it's it's on port 80 I believe so, if you guys on 88 So if you go to 52 dot 199 24 dot i'll drop it in the drop in the chat now let's see if y'all can get to it, so if you go to here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I go into the chat.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you go to actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: actually see this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you go to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You should get.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hello world.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Roberts confirmed yeah so it works so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before we go to the real moment of truth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we go to the DEMO file just to show you what's going on there and then we'll test it and then we'll move on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So just something else i'll just give you an idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just some, this is all basic stuff so we're going to meditate or in a minute red wine, this is just standard template stuff after you won the kind of its deployments are deploying a an image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, reflecting a red wine replicas one, so we just have one node right our container port is at a number that's defined by.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our our our docker image right and our our file right so like if you were going to do the same thing with the one you did, for your homework and you changed your homework before.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your container ports can be at one right that makes sense and then right above that we have our image, this is this is telling the Cooper daddy's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cluster where to go grab the image to deploy right and that's where we didn't step, one where we tag that image locally and push it up to a container registry and then step two we build our as our container or as a service, we attach it to that container registry setup.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then down here we just have another little syntax here that's setting up the type, so this is a load balancer, so this is kind of how its load balancing out across our cluster as people come in to hit our APP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have a load balancer that spreads out the workload and then sport at in our APP is red wine right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You got to use as a template So if you want to play with this with your own you know your store replace red wine with your name your place the port with your port replace the image to whatever your container registry is right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you just use this as a template.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then the last thing that test is if I come here and so let's go right here, real quick so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I go right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Actually, I can change again, like all right here, you can see right here, I have URL agile testing i'm going to just do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: URL equal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And 20 tested and tried rabbit make my life easier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I come right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: drop in at 80, and I say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I was a white collar zones.
and
MS Analytics Class 2021: It should all work I think it's one quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The state my second startup Jupiter.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the notebook interactive environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Type the right web service.
right here.
That will work.
As lot red wine, it is.
yeah It is like holly.
But right you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Know taylor's working.
Charles Swanson: I think it might need to put it in quote.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, I do thank you ever said that you're absolutely right, I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Am I don't have my glasses on today I forgot them and i'm having a hard time seeing I really appreciate, who is it that said that.
Charles Swanson: That was Charles.
Charles Swanson: Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're absolutely right, I think it shouldn't matter for single.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think it doesn't require the slash dn there you go sorry, thank you for telling the quotes I was missing something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can see, looks familiar right we got a response back, so this is a few you know i'll leave this up wanting to leave class So if you have, if you have the red wine quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: task group what you all do right from week three whatever you can plug the IP address in a day, and you can test it out and play with it, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is right it's got a public IP address yeah, this is not how you would probably do that the real world, the office.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know you're gonna go and set it up to private IP addresses inside your in your office but that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's way advanced type stuff right the idea, right here is just to show you how you can make this work right and somebody else from unit set all this up for you anyway.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I wanted to do is build a build a docker build the flask APP inside that docker distributor model and show you the whole process of how we push that docker image to azure cloud deploy cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any questions before we move on.
Charles Swanson: No, thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's really cool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What we just did is really powerful way, this is what most of your tech companies that are in businesses that are moving to the cloud and moving to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Modern Apps and things this is how they're literally how their employer Apps this isn't this is production stuff I do this at the office and been doing it for a couple years now, this is how we're deploying our our our projects and pipelines in our our models so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So how do I delete all this now well the easiest way is and I won't do this delete easiest way is that's The great thing about resource group, so my ass are viewed on this now, if I go find my resource groups I go back to home.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is one reason why so when you're when i'm playing with demoing stuff and after.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I always create a resource group to put all my DEMO code on, and the reason is, when I get done, I want an easy way to delete that DEMO well, if you remember, I created my resource group for this has all my stuff I can just go right up here to delete and the azure portal click delete.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's going to say.
Karen Fireman: here.
Karen Fireman: It is portal, a little bit, because when you were doing it, I don't think any of us were really able to follow you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So portal, but.
David Purkiss: we're not supposed to be following tonight are we.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Know portal.com.
David Purkiss: and glass.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, a portal that after.com and that's that's in the slide So if you look at this there's a slide for the command line interface and there's a slide for for lack of a calm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's how you get there right and then, once you're there and list all your services it lists, like the main services you've been using lately, and you can click on that to get to the ones quickly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you can go right here so as I deleted here here delete resource group, if you put delete resource group.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's going to say hey you have all this stuff in there, and you sure you want to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It tells you to type the name i'm not going to delete it all up running for a minutes you anybody playing at home can play with the test strip.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You put your name in there you hit delete down here and the group is gone right the resource groups on all the resources at it and as we're behind the scene will go and stop all the services delete all the services and clean it all and it's pretty good about clean up everything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Good question because, as you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As you started as you start playing with this, you know you want to be careful, especially if you start playing with it, where you're connected to a credit card connected to your business count stuff you want to be careful.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you're playing something and you're done delete it for not using anymore, because the paid on the service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They might charge you for just having it on certain services if you run it and you set it down they don't charge you so like this vm so this machine that i'm one right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This machine is a vm running an azure and when i'm done tonight, if I forget to shut it down it'll automatically shut itself down and 1110 or 11pm and I won't be charged for the actual vm running so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So cool alright so let's go back to the slide deck and oh my balls refined came up for Hello URL right there was also very good so faster portal carry right there there's that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's that link right there so.
Karen Fireman: When I get to that I just get to a lot of documentation I don't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah so you have to sign in right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you have to sign in and set up an account and they'll they'll be like a get started, or something unfortunately i'm already signed in so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But yeah you just have to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you go to for what azure you'll be like I guess you feel tell us later because.
Karen Fireman: it's not obvious.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay i'll show you the second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me walk through some side and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At the end i'll show you i'll see if I can sign out and show you how to sign up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So pretty talked about acts as if you were a service is just the Cooper daddy's that's hosted on right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're just some docs there if you want more information so containers so what's this so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a container instance lets you run containers on azure without having to manage servers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's not Cooper nettie so it container instances is hey I want to run like docker image and azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't want to run in a cluster across you know across Cooper daddy's don't need that kind of scale much, much smaller shop, but I do want to run my Code as an as a docker image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a docker container in azure so they have this as your container instance service and so i'm not going to DEMO that I got some links here if you click through and walk that but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The reason why I bring this up is to tell you that hey you might not you might be such a small shop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The last year had a guy that worked for the city of Houston, for I think for Kim on for just returning.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you know it's like we don't need a cluster daddy's but I might want to run my models in the cloud, and so, you know as your container instance might be a really good way to do that, because you can just run your container and since there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As your APP services, so we built we built a docker image and push that up to the container registry and azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we then took that that docker image in our container registry we spun up a Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We deployed it over in their graves cluster and our container and their this last slide.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We built pushed our ads your image to container registry and then we split it up in a container instance as a single you know container running hosted an azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As your APP services say hey I have Python code, so the same flash script that we wrote and we we docker is it as an image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Microsoft has, as your APP services that supports things like Python C sharp a few other languages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Power Shell some other gods other languages and they allow you to container eyes that code automatically for you in an azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, instead of you, having to docker image to pray your container you can actually just have your code and upload cuse me and i'll DEMO this probably you probably next week just given the time frame, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before we do the data bricks yeah i'll probably be next week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you can that you can take the same thing and will do this next week i'll take the same red wine at the set of deploy it up as to ready service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or deployed as a local docker image or deployed as as your APP service, and it will actually container eyes of Microsoft will containerized automatically for us and azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run it now, you might say, well i'm I do, that all the time well it's the same thing is what I talked about here, this is scale I need to scale out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is, I can control the image, and so I can make it do exactly what I want and I control the docker image and what I put into it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is all I care about that I just need to run my Python script or my code and azure and I want Microsoft to manage that that container for me setup and I just want easy.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll actually show you in visual studio code, how we can do it from inside of visual studio code from extension we'll do that next week, first thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that is APP services so it's a way to push up and have Microsoft manage it's a fully managed platform so it's web Apps on a fully managed platform that Microsoft manages that for you just push your code up and Microsoft bundles that up in the containers and runs it for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You also have what's called a surplus compute platform Microsoft has called functions and they're just lightweight functions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where I can just push my code there they don't have to be packaged into a docker image or a container to run the code itself can just sit up there, and then you can call it as a service and your for your applications and you always can think of it like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: of light scripts that are just sitting out there and Microsoft has a service platforms that they expose our services so that you can call it and align your code and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of difference between this and this is this takes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your we'll just talk about Python as an example, this actually takes your Python code automatically wraps it inside of a docker image for your ones that docker image in this APP service as a web APP right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This just takes your code hasn't seen up there, exposes it so you can run it and you know really it comes down to performance and what you need these functions aren't like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: high performance type thing right it's not like you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not like you're gonna have real time calling these functions, there might be batch type things you do, where you just you want to be able to have this up there running it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that you can run a function to do a task for you, at one time or once a day or once an hour type of thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Whereas the APP services as a container instances of Cooper daddy's, these are all going to be things that you can scale up and have them running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Staying up and running to constantly call a time, whereas the functions are more we call it kind of batch type of things where where.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You might do like a you know you're not going to call it all the time, like constantly having people hit it right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you know you might just need a platform to be able to just have a piece of code to run when you need it and so Microsoft gives you this as your function capability to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So azure, so this is a pretty cool product so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll DEMO So what do I do next week is i'm going to DEMO APP services and i'm going to DEMO this and I know my DEMO.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That so but as right now is a you can see the soul, give me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The image I grabbed off from Microsoft post was kind of cool the animated you, but what you can see here is an azure ml is cloud based environment and it gives you this full suite.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To go and author models and, if we look kind of right here, this is just a look at the web page and i'll demos in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Next week for about 10 minutes or so you gotta have three environments, you can work a side this as your email, you have no books, so if you've done Jupiter notebooks which I think you did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the summer of Dr Jones.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right you got this notebook environment this Jupiter like where you can just open up a notebook and start coding.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, and so you know for notebook start writing Python Code and the cool thing is is, at the end of the that notebook you can deploy that into the azure service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a service right, so it has things to automatically take what you wrote and deployed in those notebooks into into the azure service The other thing you have is automated ml.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what automated ml it's it's the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's the you know ml for dummies machine learning for dummies it's the I don't know how to write code I don't know how to do anything i'm a data set, and I want to build them up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you get a data set upload it to azure ml go to the automated email and say hey, this is a classification type model and you click the classification button and then you tell it what your data is and then Microsoft goes and tries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: a bunch of different types of algorithms and it comes back and says, this is the best one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it gives you all the validation and output to say, this is what happened and it's good and then you say hey This is great, and then it has a little button, you can press and deploy it as a service and then you can call that service and using.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, what you're seeing in the animated part here on zoom back out is, you have the designer, and this is so, as an email at first came out I started using it in 2013 or 14 the the experience was you had this weird like what you see here on the right, where you dragged in on the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On this bar right here, you can see it right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You dragged in all these functions, so you had data sets data input output transformation and, if we look i'll DEMO it next week we'll see a little more detail.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if you scroll down that bar in the middle there there's going to be like models right so you're going to drag these nodes in there, and you can see, remember, like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He has other things like normalized data right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it has a lot of things, but think of it like enterprise minor right so here's a summary use enterprise minor Dr Jones it's kind of like a cloud experience enterprise minor he say here's my data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: normalize it on a clean up missing data, I want to try, all these different models and you're just dragging the things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you can do some validation and some checks to say what was the best model and then at the end when you have your best model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can drag an icon that says, make a web server side of it and then they'll create a web service and it gives you a web service, just like the Flash stuff we did for Dr right, you have this service, you can call send data to and get predictions right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's kind of cool and i'm just kind of giving you all the different ideas i'm not telling you which one to use or not use but there's a lot of tools out there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I will, at the end of next class kind of give you my my two cents on everything I taught and what I like and what i'm using don't wait till the end to get a chance to see everything I will say like 1015 minutes at the end of the next class can talk about that at that level right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So first masters is free not no it's not free, it has a cost and and one thing you want to be careful, as you start spending this up and using it, you go through a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: terabyte of data in it and you're gonna you're going to get a bill a quick now that being said.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sign up with your team new account don't give them your credit card you get $2 of credit, but it runs out of runs out right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No risk there you get two hours to play with but but it's you know I played with it for you know, an hour, so I was like five five bucks or something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know 10 bucks just to kind of how big the data and what I would suggest, if you start playing a lot of these tools.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't say hey oh see what I can do with them dig a bit of data set know go grab 100 rows of data 200 rows of data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because the way these podcasts ago is you got cost for the service itself some are fixed costs, you have cost for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: amount of data that train your goes in and out of the service, you have cost for storing that data and stuff So if you start with small data sets you know thousand rows 2000 rows and just kind of play with it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your keep your costs down, you can learn the tools right, so you do get if you haven't signed up, I mean and I won't carry I promise before classes over I will take five minutes to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: log out a portal and show you how to sign up and whatnot so, because that is a very good point during I want to make sure you guys know how to do that so.
Karen Fireman: Poorly you can't sign in yeah that's what I meant yeah I know what you meant I just don't do that again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that way it's fresh in your mind you leave home or when you got.
MS Analytics Class 2021: home, but we always do at the end that way it's fresh on your mind because that's, the first thing most of you probably going to do you're going to class and you're storing your computer is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Only go sign up for azure so i'll do it again, so that you can kind of watch right so that's Why am I good at the end i'm not trying to to push it off and forget about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It that's that's why i'm I did at the end so, so this is as your email i'll DEMO this next week.
Zuberi, Bilal: Professor can.
Zuberi, Bilal: use can you use Python within as your functions, or is it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: gathers everything I show you so this whole course is based on Python right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because that's the number one liners unless you're using a guy show you support Python so function support and you follow those links, so, if you look at the bottom line that says this is from like 20 ronnie November October, I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's where it shows a general availability, which means it's in production meeting Microsoft production is it and fully support it, you know Python support and add your function so it's five or functions support like Python power show F sharp C sharp.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know they support several languages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So good question is there any questions that i'm missing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and
MS Analytics Class 2021: On the chat.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think I think so as your cognitive services, so if you're in DR jones's class on Tuesday.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We were always here on Tuesday we play with drone before we play with drones we get some natural language processing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the Google cloud so under as your cognitive services Microsoft has some text analysis capabilities and different capabilities in there around that and so it's it's a service that has.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Several capabilities to allow you to do that, and so let me just click there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just to show you like a DEMO, but I just want to open it up in the browser.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I go to home site, create a resource.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So under that cognitive services, you have these things like computer vision face text analytics you know these are all falling underneath that so what i'm going to do is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK, I will DEMO cognitive services i'll DEMO through power bi it's really cool so i'm gonna get into the last two slides left.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm gonna come back to this and then I do I do, I will show the DEMO power bi cognitive services really quickly so data bricks were thought about this next week, but data bricks is your path based on Apache spark super powerful parallel processing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: synapse analytics, so this is Microsoft latest greatest product azure GA mean general availability mean fully support it and December of this year and it's such a big project product that sack to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Talk to the CEO of Microsoft he actually made the announcement usually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You see a lot of these announcements going GA they're like you know it's a video somebody makes it posted up on the blog and they sent out a Twitter thing saying hey GA of such and such So this was a big event.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It was like two and a half hours long or something satya and all these different companies, but as your sin Apps analytics.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just takes a lot of different products and azure that they've built over the years and puts it in one platform and what the platform gives you this ability to take pipelines to bring your data in to data lakes and into high performance sequel databases and also into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Apache spark and sequel on demand and allows you to then have this one platform to go and do all the analysis and so it has things like notebooks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To do data analytics on it has Apache spark so data bricks is we'll talk about next week is built off Apache spark, which is the Open Source project that uc Berkeley for came out of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I believe, is that high performance part of part of the dupe ecosystem for doing massively parallel.
MS Analytics Class 2021: processing of data and Ai algorithms and things right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this is that sin Apps i'll DEMO this next week, too, so i'll give you a little will bring the slide back up and i'll go one more detail into it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the idea here is, and this is just kind of an example of a workflow using snaps the idea here is Microsoft has this one platform, but they kind of call their big data and analytics platform.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's all one product and azure that allows you to then set it up and you get this web interface to go and manage and use your data to do analytics and all that so i'll DEMO this next week as well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But that is just kind of a foray into the different things you know it's one is to be a high level introduction to the right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I mean, each one of these different things could be could be you know more to level the day class, you know what to class period type thing right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the High Level stuff I want you to understand what we'll do that take about 10 minutes five minutes that's a DEMO that will DEMO that i'm going to DEMO that right now and then show your portal and then, once you go so like we got a mess perfect so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me do this.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, so i've installed power bi, how do you install power bi I think I know this, did I do a power to a power bi DEMO for you guys, it was a class before you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: know I don't think I don't think I did power behind, but the way the power bi unfortunately runs on windows.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the way to get it is to go to the store APP and windows so Microsoft store search for power bi.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Unfortunately.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is going to show you, unfortunately, is not free, but it is free, right now, because they have previews of the premium features of power bi so you can try it out, so you just going to go to the desktop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and get power bi and install it will say install it install it and then, once you install it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to give you a screen and you got to sign in so like up here on the right side it's i'm registered under my personal account.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can use your student ID so when you first launch it'll say like getting started don't show me mine anymore, unfortunately, because i'm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All my machines i've logged in as part of the like every day, but when you first install the desktop and you watch it that little pop up that comes up i'll say get started and there'll be a little thing, where you fill in your information.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You just fill it in and then use your use your student ID and get going and then, once once you have power be installed need to do one thing first to do this DEMO, and that is to go to power bi.com.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And sign in so you do that, right here at the top.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So put your username and be honest with you when you first watch the desktop and you fill out that application it's going to take you to the browser.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Anyway, to sign in and set it up and once you've signed in and set up you won't have the cool marvel fish like I do with my little hat here i've customized my power bi environment, but over here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On the right you do one thing like this work, and that is to click this little person I icon here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And do premium per user trial.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you'll just click that and then it will i've already enabled it so mind just goes in here to tell me about what premium per user is when you do it for the first time it's going to say hey do you want to do this and enablement right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's just that's just in the power bi website click this little person right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And click this premium per user trial with this little arrow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To to sign up for it will say hey you sure you I do the free 60 day version premium per user and that's going to give you the functionality to use the cognitive services, so what i've done in week six.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and your downloads I have a file here called.
MS Analytics Class 2021: fabric calm calming so they're like they're like comments on a fictional website Microsoft made up so we're going to do sentiment analysis so we're just going to go right here and do get data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is a csv file server and clicks that csv.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'm just going to go to where that file is browse to it week six.
MS Analytics Class 2021: click fabric on comments could open.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then it's going to read that csv file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and give me a little pop up to say hey this is what's in there, so when this pop up comes up don't click the yellow button that says load.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All of us Microsoft mvp is hate the fact that the yellow button is load your quick transform data, because what this does is open up what's called power query.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this allows us to go in and fix data type to do your for things metal mesh massage data, make it right and then close and apply this window, so that we can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that we can then build our visuals right but that's about what I want to show you the day I went click tracks from data and what i'm doing visual today we're going to do, cognitive service So you see this Ai insights.
MS Analytics Class 2021: appear.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To text analytics vision, as your machine learning so that, as your machine learning, I thought I told you about where I said, you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: use that little busy wig and go build a model and save it as a service or you can put a notebook up there and save the service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The cool thing about power bi so it's like tablo right it's Microsoft visual analytics platform, the cool thing about it is you can build models and as your machine learning save them out their service and then your power bi desktop the data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In power bi as you're building your you know your visuals as your data comes in, you can make calls out to those services and azure and ml.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run those models, but we're going to just use what built in and we're just going to do a sentiment analysis of these comments or say hey are these good comments.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are these bad comments right so like if you were Dr Jones as possible to not everybody has Dr Jones have to see out of that, but what I think they did is they looked at like sentiment of sentences.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is going to use microsoft's proprietary algorithms that they built in that agile cognitive services, I talked about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to take this data Center to azure the cognitive services to the text analytics part of it and you don't just say no, I didn't have to build anything and azure I just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Power bi has the hope to know to use these services automatically for you, I don't have to go instead of service up as her, I just have to have this premium license and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just go right here, I say text analytics.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So a sign in, and so this is this is, you have to sign in so that it knows that you have a license for this, and this is once you enable the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Once you did that free premium trial that's going to give you for 60 days this premium service, and then I click connect.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and hopefully all it's a test to at home, I texted him I tested this on my portable laptop when I got here tonight again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just haven't had a chance to test it on this because I want to be able to show you the signing process and everything but it's part of the problem with demos right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sometimes you can't actually run the DEMO on the machine, you want to show you, because if you do certain steps aren't visible so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to tech language, we can extract key phrases in this case we're doing sports sentiment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And once I do that it just says All I ask is for what column, but I want to score the sentiment on and this case I picked calm, I can give it a language ISO code, this is all English English, so we don't have to worry about that it's gonna be the fall and I just click OK and that's it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that should I went the background like that I got to talk to somebody at Microsoft that blog is back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's going out there, so you see little dot.so now it's just saying hey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to take this data and the reason why you get this warning here it's telling you hey i'm taking your data from this service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm going to go up to our eyes or service and do stuff are you okay with that and i'm gonna say yeah trusted in all the privacy hit save because I know my worry, this is fake data anyway.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so now it's taking those that column of comments it's going to the cognitive services sitting up and as you're doing the sentiment analysis and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Bringing that back down and given me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: centamin scores.
MS Analytics Class 2021: However, we do let's see 767 Point seven six boy, thanks to the recession, it did help it did help a little bit not entirely.
MS Analytics Class 2021: eliminate the issue my sure I think that's good sentence, this is why no idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or steel and see how I would do three, so this is point eight right play it's got the wow explanation see that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we got this law and no idea they're steel, and you can see right here the score got was pointing pretty cool So if you work for like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A hotel and you had a Twitter account or you had you know, a website where people did comments and you downloaded this data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Every day, you can have this this thing every time I refresh this model now let's redo the sentiments for the data right so now you enrich European power bi report, using a cognitive text analytics services with the scores, and now you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: do that so so so is this so kindle you're asking how much does this cost.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kindle.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's a cool thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So Microsoft is just released in the last few months, so they call premium per user licensing and so power bi is $10 a month retail per person for power bi pro.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you need that as $10 and I think the premium per user license I want to say is 20 bucks more so for 30 bucks a month.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can have power bi pro and our pay a premium and uses now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't get any licensing talks yours on licenses i'm not a Microsoft person, but you know how the licensing works for a while to stuff will do that offline.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just because they can get it's just I don't want a complicated issues here but it's the cool thing is, you have 60 days to try this out for free, you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sign up for your account get a 60 day pro license for free get a 60 day premium per user license for free.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you have 60 days to play with this right and then depending on where you work most companies, probably have power be a lot of companies that are bigger companies might have power bi for you, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then I can close and apply this and then I can go in and I have my data set, and I can do that, so let me do this i'm going to start with demos right now show you the portal experience, just so you can see how that looks and then and then call in tonight, so, while i'm bringing on portal.
questions.
Wilson Pineda: hey Jamie Wilson here can you hear me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, I can hear you.
Wilson Pineda: Great one question I realized the Ai feature there where you can build the models.
Wilson Pineda: One question is that when you build the models, can you export those models to a different platform or they're going to be.
Wilson Pineda: used to be using a service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so some of these things like so here here's the thing it's a it's a multi faceted answer right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The web server side just deployed as your primary service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I deployed, it was called public IP address guess what every single one of you were able to use that service right so from a standpoint of really depend on what you're doing and how you're deploying things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can use the services that way now the payroll else things you're doing remember the first class, we talked about onyx that's an open open gosh i'm terrible with what.
MS Analytics Class 2021: acronym stands for, but it's an open something networking and they basically say an open source way to take a model you built in a platform.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and export it as an onyx file, so that you can then use it and other platforms right and so that's more around saving them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Train model you built it to be able to use it another platform so that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One option, you can do some of these tools are just like like azure and Malik i'm in a notebook write Python code is just Python when i'm done, I can save it as a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: ipi me file and open up an esports a notebook right so some services rely on like the cognitive services, these are stuff that's only an azure right so that stuff has to run an agile.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But That being said, I can use those comments and service and azure expose a service that has my model in there and then because it's a web service, a man called web service that has access to get there can call it from any platform is, I can answer your question.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's it's it depends on what product you're using and what it's doing some things you stuff that's only an azure and so you can't take like the code itself and move it over to Google or things like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if it's something that gets exposed as a service, you might know if you have your application running in a different environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And calling the service, so a lot of what we're doing is we're deploying our services up in the cloud, but our websites and our applications that are running on premises.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're just running on the desktop so people's desktops and servers servers in our data centers and calling these services in the cloud.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it just depends on what service you're using azure whether the actual code itself can be portable and moved over so things were playing ball Python code that's Python code right that can generally be moved anything supports Python.
Wilson Pineda: Yes, sorry.
Wilson Pineda: For the one that you mentioned that you can you have the data and it has the interface, and it will, it will be called the moral and build Mr America for you will it create like a by tomorrow or is gonna be like a black box.
Wilson Pineda: For the one that you mentioned that it is my another is going to be a service.
Wilson Pineda: model Okay, once you get the data and does everything for you, you tell what kind of a what kind of probably you want to answer, or what is kind of what you want to predict, will it create a Python code or will be like a black box.
Enterprise minor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: monitor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Their script in the background that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It just depends on the product right some stuff like, for example, as your mail piece right showed you the park that looks like enterprise manager that's all proprietary inside of that part right that just sticks there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, the only thing we do with that is once you have a model and you like it, you can expose a service that has that model being exposed for you to use it, but anything I can call a restaurant, which is pretty much any.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Application right but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you open in the same clock as your mlm aggressive, you have a notebook part right if you have a notebook and you just wrote straight Python code at the other day when you're done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can export that Python notebook and open to anything and open up Python notebook or you can export just the Python code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Open up any in Python so we're talking about data bricks next week, because my data Brett says it's on Google it's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like a week, two weeks ago it's on Google now it's on azure and it's on Amazon so anything you do that it's you know I can move that over and work in anything I am I can go to azure or Google like go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To Amazon or data bricks and it works, it just depends on the product you're working like this power bi with that texting that's that's that's the beauty of it it's so easy to use the reason why is because built into the product.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's like a like go over to another platform that's using that whole platform, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think the real answer is if it's code you wrote like in Python, then you can pick that to other platforms, but if you're doing like busy with stuff inside azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're probably not gonna have a way to really take that to the other platform, but you probably can expose it as a service that you can use and other platforms right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or if it supports like things like export out tonight finite bubble train a model that export as a hanukkah and then use it in our platform, but that's still an infancy, you know the onyx thing is still so is this where you're at what you see the portal that has what I call.
Wilson Pineda: Thank Thank you gave me you didn't answer the question very well, I do appreciate it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No worries so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The portal.
Karen Fireman: No, no, that would be no I already did that and then again he asked me, did I want to do bash for power Shell, since I didn't know I waited.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so.
Karen Fireman: Here you have an account.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay.
Karen Fireman: Did that two weeks ago.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so you can do power show it doesn't so what that is there's a Shell level that it gives you a Shell to work in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, like when I did the agile command line interface stuff from a command prompt you can actually run those and portal that agile calm in that in that Shell, so I would pick power shell.
Karen Fireman: So now they asked us as your for students, create storage, you have no storage.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that is a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You want to share your screen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sure, let me stop sharing it'll be easier, this is the one of the problems I don't have a way to test this part because I don't I don't have a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All my cancer so.
Karen Fireman: I don't know which one is, which I think it's this one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right stop sharing.
Karen Fireman: Can you see.
Can you see my blog.
Karen Fireman: I think you gave it to me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh yeah sorry sorry I did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I, I can see it now, so you can say azure for students, say, create storage.
Karen Fireman: Okay, the first one right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Great storage.
storage.
Karen Fireman: Oh it's creating it okay.
yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what this is doing is this is what's called the azure cloud show, so, if you remember when I was in storage man let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, no, I still it's still.
Karen Fireman: it's still thinking and creating it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it is still.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Doing Karen is so you set up your account what it was, it was no attacks your account to storage, so that I can run this azure cloud Shell, and what that is is it gives you that command line interface, you were just playing with at the command prompt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It gives you a way to start this azure cloud shelter issue commands like az.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know login and az you know.
Karen Fireman: Right, I think he yeah yeah.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so it's it's.
Wilson Pineda: Sorry sorry for interrupting your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: career portal that as your.com this is as you're assigning your ncl I got a portal that.
Karen Fireman: When I did that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Go to portal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Who else was talking or ask a question i'm sorry to cut you off.
Wilson Pineda: No, I just want to know you the classes it's over and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Over if you're comfortable don't have to log into the portal and all that go ahead.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is very much.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you are, you are at currency or $200 credit it's up there in the top right care.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So where you were at as you were in the coi one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you must click sign in on the accuracy Li and that was trying to get you signed into the azure cloud Shell, which allows you to run the command line in the cloud portal that agile.com gets you to where I was, which is to see my resources.
Karen Fireman: Okay, good I don't know why I didn't get this you mean.